Alessandro Aprile
Front End developer
aprile.alessandro@gmail.com +393200625543 https://github.com/netalex Linkedin - based in Italy
Skills
Front-end Development: Angular / AngularJs - React - React-native - Redux - Typescript - webRtc - “vanilla” js - Javascript - Ionic - PhoneGap / Cordova - jasmine - jquery - html / css - jhipster - RxJs - Sass - Scss - Bootstrap - Angular Material - PrimeNG - Quill editor - WYSIWYG editor - Template engine client side (mustache, dot.js) - Agile methodology - Jasmine - Front-end Unit Testing - MSW Mock Service Worker library - JSON
Back-end Development (indirect knowledge): SQL - Oracle - Node - PHP - Laravel - Professional tomcat-based CMS (LifeRay) and server-side template engine (Apache Velocity, FreeMarker) - M.E.A.N Stack - MongoDB - Express.js - Agile methodology
Work Experience
2023 - Branch dashboard for centralized registry tool for a large insurance company - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/GFT (Remote)
Writing FE Unit tests (minimum 80% coverage)
Planning and executing new integration into the project
Peer programming with junior FE figures to support their onboarding.
Integration of PrimeNG’s wysiwyg editor based on Quill editor to achieve a highly specialized custom component
Angular material, Jasmine, MSW, PrimeNG, Quill Editor.
2022 - Angular FE development for a CRM portal section for Ministry of Defense - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/Engineering (Remote)
Integration and customization of “ace.js editor” library within the Angular app’s structure as a component, used in the relevant section and replicated for the twin team’s section
Peer programming with junior FE figures
Agile development: Contributed to setting up the agile framework at the team’s start-up.
Constant contribution to requirement analysis in collaboration with BE and DB dev.
Agile development, Angular v13.
2022 - A&M and new features development in a high-profile Loan management system for a banking group - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/GFT (Remote)
A&M incident management,
bugfixing and new features
React.
2022 - React frontend for an all-in-one CRM for call centers - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/NextIP (Presence)
rewriting the frontend in React from a a legacy monolithic PHP webapp version
React, PHP, asterisk.
2020/2022 - Mobile and web app’s suite for corporate decision-making management - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/Abstract (Remote)
development
Writing technical documentation
Fixes and post-release development maintenance
Monitoring execution activities in production.
React / React-native, Typescript, RxJs, Java, MongoDB.
2020 - Aircraft maintenance management software - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/Engineering/A-Ice (Presence)
Design and rewrite in SPA technology (angular) of a legacy aircraft management application for airports. Modular structure, starting from the de-icing module. Project suspended in the initial phase due to COVID.
Angular, Custom angular components for tabular visualization.
2020 - B2B Books distribution ERP Front End - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/EmmeLibri (Presence)
Code maintenance and implementation of change requests;
Colleague training on Angular and the project.
Angular.
2018/2020 - PSD2 Bank access management interface - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/Intesi (Presence)
complete flow developed from scratch
Initial project documentation (functional analysis) creating a foundation for detailed development
Angular development
Support for junior front-end developers
Angular 6, OAUTH2, JWT, Reactive programming (RxJS), java Spring Boot, KeyCloack/Openshift, jhipster.
2019 - Web interface for medical devices integrated retail sales system - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/Spindox (Presence)
deployed worldwide, for the world industry-leading company
Coaching and training on Angular to a junior member of the FE team
Building the application from scratch
Reviewing DEI documents
Angular, BE in c#.
2018 - IVD LIS web app for clinical laboratories - Front-end Developer - Lutech (Presence)
Project documents writing: SDS and TP according to ISO 13485:2012
Angular development
Testing the developed code based on the TP
Angular 6, C# backend.
2018 - - Front-end Developer - ThinkOpen/Vittoria Assicurazioni (Presence)
Insurance branch registry.
Angular 6.
2017 - Frontend interface for a smart controller app for solar farms - Front-end Developer - ABB PowerOne (Presence)
Building and testing specific functions and components for the release, at Arezzo headquarters and remotely.
Defining and testing remote work methods
AngularJS ^1.5 version, grunt.
2015/2017 - Integrated document management system for the public sector - Front-end Developer - 3Wlab (remote)
Single Frontend Developer
Selecting and testing necessary Angular components
Personally designing the structure of the first functional demo
Coordinating HTML experts and graphic designers
Managing contact with the client’s technical referee In the subsequent production phase, I was responsible for:
Aligning the development team
Testing server-side APIs and suggesting implementations
AngularJs, js/jquery, scss, gulp/grunt, html5 canvas.
2015/2017 - Integrated document management system for the public sector - Twin project - 3Wlab (remote)
Personally designing the frontend structure
Coordinating HTML experts and graphic designers
stack same as twin project
2016 HTML development in the TLC sector - Front end Developer - Avanade (Presence)
Creating portal page structures for a TLC brand for a new brand’s homepage and landing page, later integrated into the client’s SAP Hybris portal.
Organizing a remote team (client based in Rome, activities in Milan)
Collaboration with the custom CMS development team
Make assets from provided PSDs
Writing HTML/CSS from scratch
Integrating the CMS frontend
Gradual introduction of command-line integration tools (scss) into the team workflow
html5/css, js/jquery, scss/Sass, javascript/jquery
2015 Online gambling portal: frontend maintenance and refactoring - Winga (Presence)
Maintenance, integration, refactoring, and expansion of the online gambling portal’s html5/js frontend for web and mobile access, based on Apache Velocity for a custom Tomcat/LifeRay platform. The portal, deployed and active, required:
Maintenance support
Legacy code refactoring in anticipation of a portal rewrite
Preparation for the mobile app version of the games supported by the portal.
Refactoring of frontend javascript functionalities in a modular form, following the portal’s rewrite
Managing daily update deploy tickets for portal content
Assisting in setting up the game app templates planned for development
javascript, jquery, Apache Velocity template engine, sass via compass, SVN
2014/2015 - Cross-platform mobile CMS on hybrid app paradigm - Front-end Developer - DS Group (Presence)
JS development over a proprietary cross-platform mobile CMS environment project. in-house customizable framework for client-specific content delivery. It involved duplicating a Java backend locally on mobile devices, both structurally and in terms of data, in a hybrid multi-platform approach based on a native framework.
Responsible for customizing the HTML5 interface of the hybrid framework (for a specific beta client)
Involved in refactoring the Java backend
Vanilla JS.
2013/2014 - Redeem app - Forge Replay (Presence)
Hybrid app development within a gamification context, accessing social networks REST APIs Training the team on Phonegap/Cordova technology
Setting up the multi-platform development environment for Phonegap projects
Researching and verifying required Cordova plugins
Feasibility analysis of HTML5 video embedding on Android 2.x/4.x and iOS
Structural architecture development for data management and application workflow
Local data management mechanics development
Server data flow management development
REST interface verification to the server and technical contacts with server-side developers
Technical contacts in English with a third-party data analysis tool provider (MobileAppTracking)
Technical contacts with an external consultant for the Facebook platform interface and code integration
Phonegap, HTML5, dotJs, jQuery, REST, JavaScript
2014 web application for financial portfolio and rating management - Cerved
Creating an integrated application for financial and statistical rating reports about the Italian business market for private clients. JavaScript development in an internal team - Agile mode.
responsible for Front-end HTML5/js development
Agile methodology
HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Twitter Bootstrap (custom template)
BE in with MongoDB - Java - SQL
2013/2014 Biological material handling app in medical context - Mobile Developer - freelance
Contractual development activity in web/JS on an Android platform.
This independent project involved developing a Phonegap app for a specific Android device (Galaxy SIII mini) used by transporters to check off loading lists via barcode scanning. Offline mode for working in non cabled refrigerated cells for perishable biological material storage, without the need of network access.
Preliminary feasibility analysis
Application workflow development
Remote collaboration with server developers to refine transmitted JSON
Complete app development, including login management to offline mode
Local persistence management via Local Storage
App testing and debugging remotely and in person with server developers
High-level HTML5 and jQuery Mobile interface design based on client-provided brand guidelines
Handover of brand guidelines to HTML developer and final interface code integration
Technologies: Phonegap for hardware access, Specific third-party “Barcode Scanner” plugin for handling the device’s integrated camera as a barcode reader, JavaScript, and a tech stack composed of Underscore.js, jQuery, jQuery Mobile and HTML5
2010/2013 Junior PL/SQL Developer
Real-time analysis and troubleshooting of net-db issues in the TelCo domain. Worked across various TelCo locations.
pure SQL query on Oracle systems
2000/2010 Various Activities in IT support
I.E: - 2001/2007 technical help desk consumer level - 2000 technical test optical fiber hw devices in Tokyo
Projects
2017 Node app for resource scheduling (WordPress plugin POC) - Front end Developer - 3Wlab (Presence)
Activities:
Internal Calendar-Scheduler using NodeJs
Developed a NodeJs app based on the jQuery fullcalendar plugin for visualizing the company’s human resource load. An internal project intended to be integrated into the intranet site as a WordPress plugin.
Create the web app around the jQuery fullcalendar plugin
Develop mock APIs on Node Js (json-server module)
Configure it as a stand-alone Node Js application for POC
Produce a strictly front-end version integrating with APIs to be developed on WordPress following the mock I created.
Technologies:
Vanilla JavaScript
jQuery
fullcalendar & fullcalendar-scheduler plugin
NodeJs
json-server module
2017 A.I. P.A. Framework - Internal chatbot for POC - 3Wlab
I searched for and selected open-source components to create a Chatbots interface NodeJs framework as company internal project. Goal was to present a Proof Of Concept webchat with artificial intelligence to a public administration entity as a replacement for their FAQ.
Activities:
Selecting and testing required software components
Building technical expertise in NodeJs and ChatBot UI
Producing the POC for presentation to the client
Evaluated Technologies:
HTML5/CSS
NodeJs
botpress
Python
chatScript
2013 BlogFeed Reader - Junior Front end Developer - AreaTC
Internal company project.
Due to the then imminent google feed service’s closure, an app for feed reading (initially) for the Android platform was developed. It was linked to a specific blog but was customizable for various clients and expandable to multiple feed sources, as an advertising medium for the client.
Project intended as a benefit to clients who purchase the technical blog/web App service from the producing company.
Activities:
Functional analysis
Design
Technology selection (libraries and languages)
Data structure design (webSql)
Application GUI design (jQueryMobile)
Eclipse/ADT environment setup for development and testing
Application development and testing
Technologies:
HTML5/CSS3
JavaScript
jQuery
jQueryMobile
webSql
PhoneGap/Cordova v2.x
Google services for feed syndication (Google Feed API, deprecated)
Education
Diploma in Classical Studies - Liceo Classico Leopardi (1990 - 1997)
Languages
Italian: Native
English: Proficient
French: Proficient
2023 - Branch dashboard for centralized registry tool for a large insurance company - Front-end Developer
Writing FE Unit tests (minimum 80% coverage)
Planning and executing new integration into the project
Peer programming with junior FE figures to support their onboarding.
Integration of PrimeNG’s wysiwyg editor based on Quill editor to achieve a highly specialized custom component
Angular material, Jasmine, MSW, PrimeNG, Quill Editor.